# Macro Variables for the 10th Outlook

This repository contains the macroeconomic assumptions and data used for the 10th APEC Energy Demand and Supply Outlook.

The repository is adapted from the **macro_variables_9th** repository. The methodology for population and GDP projections remains the same core modelling logic from the 9th Outlook, ensuring consistency and comparability between Outlook editions. Updates for the 10th Outlook primarily focus on updated data inputs, and changes structure in Step 2 in Project organization.

## GDP Projections to 2100

One of the main components of this repository is GDP projections for APEC economies through to 2100.

The starting point is International Monetary Fund (IMF) GDP projections for APEC economies out to 2030. These projections are then extended to 2100.

The model uses a Solow-Swan Cobb-Douglas production function with labour and capital inputs, together with derived labour efficiency estimates.

### Model Inputs
The model incorporates:
- Population projections to 2100 (UN DESA)
- Capital stock estimates (Penn World Tables)
- Depreciation rates (Penn World Tables)
- National savings rates (International Monetary Fund)
- Labour efficiency estimates derived from historical data and available IMF projections

Capital stock, depreciation, savings rates, and labour efficiency are assumed to evolve through time based on model assumptions and expert assessment.

### Scripts to generate results (in workflow >> scripts >> macro)
#### Data grab and visualisation
- a1_UN_DESA_population_data.py: Grabs UN DESA population data, visualises population trajectories out to 2100, and saves data in required format for use later.
- a2_IMF_data_grab.py: Grabs relevant IMF data as input for the model.
- a3_PWT_data_grab.py: Grabs Penn World Tables data and visualises relevant data.
- a4_combined_mini_projection.py: Uses Swan Solow model to derive labour efficiency for historical/available data. Packages all relevant data: Available GDP (to 2030 from IMF), capital (k stock from PWT), labour (UN DESA choice to 2100), labour efficiency.

#### GDP projections
- b1_GDP_model_APERC.py
Builds a function that allows choice of how labour efficiency, savings, and depreciation evolves through time (these values are not static and have large implications for long-term GDP projections). The function then generates GDP estimates and plots these estimates alongside older GDP projections (from the 9th Outlook, published in 2025).

- b2_generate_GDP_results.py
Executes function built in the previous script for all 21 economies, with ability to make choices about how the inputs change through time, and visualises the results.

- b3_GDP_population_sensitivity.py
Executes the functions with the same selections in 2b, but with a population sensitivity of Low, Medium and High (UN DESA has more than 10 different population scenarios, but High, Medium, and Low are chosen as representative of most of the range).

- z_GDP_model_Pugh.py: A different approach from David Pugh for reference

## Project Organization
Project organization is based on ideas from Good Enough Practices for Scientific Computing and the SnakeMake recommended workflow.

1. Put each project in its own directory, which is named after the project.
2. Put source/input datasets obtained from external source in the `data_source/` directory. Put intermediate and processed datasets generated by scripts and notebooks in `data/` directory.
3. Put configuration files in the `config/` directory.
4. Put text documents associated with the project in the `docs/` directory.
5. Put all scripts in the `workflow/scripts/` directory.
6. Install the Conda environment into the `workflow/envs/` directory.
7. Put all notebooks in the `workflow/notebooks/` directory.
8. Put final results in the `results/` directory.
9. Name all files to reflect their content or function.
Note: input data when updates are required, the latest versions of input data should be downloaded directly from their public sourcesfor (or from internal directories (Teams)) that you will need to save in the relevant location in the `data_source/` directory on your cloned repository. Intermediate datasets generated by scripts and notebooks are stored in the `data/` directory.

## Using Conda
### Creating the Conda Environment
After adding any necessary dependencies to the Conda `environment.yml/` file you can create the environment in a sub-directory of your project directory by running the following command.

```/
$ conda env create --prefix ./env --file ./workflow/envs/environment.yml
```

Once the new environment has been created you can activate the environment with the following command.

```/
$ conda activate ./env
```

Note that the `env/` directory is not under version control as it can always be re-created from the environment.yml file as necessary.

### Update from Finn (uses a different env file)
You can also use the macro_variables_env environment that finn has created for his use.

Change the environment folder and environment.yml file in the steps above from:
```/
./env and ./workflow/envs/environment.yml
```
to:
```bash
./macro_variables_env and ./workflow/envs/macro_variables_env.yml
```

### Updating the Conda environment
If you add (remove) dependencies to (from) the `environment.yml/` file after the environment has already been created, then you can update the environment with the following command.
```bash
$ conda env update --prefix ./env --file ./workflow/envs/environment.yml --prune
```

### Listing the full contents of the Conda environment
The list of explicit dependencies for the project are listed in the `environment.yml/` file. To see the full list of packages installed into the environment run the following command.
```bash
conda list --prefix ./env
```

